=head1 NAME

gmi2email - subscribe to gemlogs and read individual Gemini pages by e-mail

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<gmi2email> [I<OPTIONS>] [I<URI or FILE>] ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gmi2email> fetches pages served using the Gemini protocol, converts them to
e-mail messages, and then sends those messages.  It is mainly useful for
subscribing to Gemini logs ("gemlogs") by e-mail, like rss2email(1).
B<gmi2email> fetches, converts and sends all URIs and files containing
text/gemini content specified on the command line.

=head2 TYPICAL USAGE

1. Ensure you have a working MTA: B<gmi2email> will use the sendmail(1)
command to send mail.

2. Create B<~/.config/mailscripts/gmi2email.config> with content like this:

=over 4

    from = rss@example.com
    to = your_email@example.com
    inline_images = 1

=back

3. Create B<~/.config/mailscripts/gmi2email.subscriptions> with some feed
URIs, e.g.

=over 4

    gemini://example.com/my_cool_gemlog/
    gemini://example.com/other_cool_gemlog/feed.xml

=back

4. Just once, execute

=over 4

    % gmi2email --subscriptions --no-send

=back

5. Periodically, execute

=over 4

    % gmi2email --subscriptions

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--subscriptions>

In addition to mailing any URIs/files specified on the command line, check
subscribed gemlogs for new posts and send those too.  Useful in a crontab.

We support the subscription mechanism described at
<gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/docs/companion/subscription.gmi> as well as
Atom feeds.

B<gmi2email> looks for a file with a list of gemini:// URIs to check for new
posts, one per line, in
B<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mailscripts/gmi2email.subscriptions>, or if XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is not set, it falls back to trying to read
B<~/.config/mailscripts/gmi2email.subscriptions>.

=item B<--inline-images>

Download and inline any images included in the post.

=item B<--no-send>

Don't actually send any mail.  Intended when you just added some new
subscriptions and want to avoid receiving all the old posts you've already
read.

=item B<--from=>I<ADDRESS>

Set the From: address, overriding the configuration file.

=item B<--to=>I<ADDRESS>

Set the To: address, overriding the configuration file.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

B<gmi2email> tries to read configuration from the file
B<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mailscripts/gmi2email.config>, or if XDG_CONFIG_HOME is not
set, it falls back to trying to read
B<~/.config/mailscripts/gmi2email.config>.

The format is I<key = value>, one per line.  The following
configuration keys are supported:

=over 4

=item B<from>

Set the From: address.

=item B<to>

Set the To: address.

=item inline_images

Set to 1 to implicitly pass B<--inline-images>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

<https://gemini.circumlunar.space/>

=head1 AUTHOR

B<gmi2email> was written by Sean Whitton <spwhitton@spwhitton.name>.
